JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
continues to be nagged by
possible links between Russia
and his associates and questions
over whether Mr. Trump has tried
to shut down that investigation.
Last week, the Russia story
took another turn when reports
surfaced that special counsel
Robert Mueller is investigating
the president himself.
I spoke a short while
ago to Jay Sekulow.
He's a member of President
Trump's legal team and chief
counsel for the American Center
for Law and Justice.
And I began by asking if
the special counsel has
informed Mr. Trump that
he's under investigation.
JAY SEKULOW, Attorney For
Donald Trump: No, he has not.
There has been no information
given by the special counsel
informing the president that
he is under investigation.
It's been consistent.
Again, we have received nothing
about an investigation of the
president of the United States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, as you
acknowledged yesterday,
it is possible that
the president could be
under investigation and
just simply not have been
informed by it -- about it.
JAY SEKULOW: Well, I mean,
but here's the reality.
This is not something
that's happened in a vacuum.
This is -- there's
been discussions about
this Russian probe and
committees of the Congress
looking at this for nine months,
with -- producing no evidence
about Russian collusion.
So, while it's true I can't
read the mind of a special
counsel, we have received no
notification of an investigation
or a pending investigation or
a preliminary investigation
or anything else.
So, what I can say is what we
know is the president right
now is not investigation,
has not been investigation,
and is not under investigation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are you saying
the stories that have been
printed in The Washington Post
and other news
organizations are false?
JAY SEKULOW: Well,
The Washington Post
story was based on five
anonymous sources where
they didn't even
identify the agency.
So, you have that report coming
out from The Washington Post
which I believe is false.
And then the -- ABC reported
that they had received from
their sources information that
in fact the special
counsel had not opened an
investigation of the president.
So, again, I don't know
where these sources are
coming from, but we have
not had any information
from the special counsel
or anyone else, for that
matter, that the president
is under investigation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, setting
that aside, when the president
told Lester Holt a few weeks
ago at that interview that he
had what he called the Russia
thing on his mind when he
fired then FBI Director
James Comey and when
he said to Russian
diplomats around the same
time that it relieved pressure
on him to fire James Comey,
what was he referring to?
JAY SEKULOW: Well, the president
engaged in a deliberative
process that went on for a
number of weeks evaluating
the performance of James Comey
as the FBI director, and that
culminated in a number of
discussions that took place
within the White House.
Ultimately, the attorney
general of the United
States and the deputy
attorney general recommended
to the president the
removal of James Comey, and
James Comey was removed.
Now, that's just fact.
What other thoughts the
president had going into that,
how long he'd been considering,
I wasn't privy to that,
but normal deliberative
process and they look
at a variety of issues.
Regarding the Russia
situation, I would like to
say something, Judy, here.
Look, this is a bit
of a witch-hunt.
It really is a witch-hunt.
This investigation from the
Congress has been going for nine
months into this Russia probe.
And members of the Senate
and House from right,
left and center said
so far there's been no
evidence of collusion.
When the intelligence officers
were asked, is there evidence
of collusion on this, no
evidence of collusion.
We didn't include evidence
because we haven't
seen that evidence.
So, this is a situation
that I think is basically
like a factual scenario
that's almost being
made up.
And the president is responding
the way presidents respond, in
that this is not consuming his
day.
It's not consuming an hour.
He's trying to and is
successfully governing.
And I think what we have
to look at, there is
now a special counsel.
The special counsel will
evaluate whatever the
special counsel evaluates.
But the American people are
being penalized in this as well.
And it continues to drag on.
(CROSSTALK)
JAY SEKULOW: Yes, go ahead.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But let
me just step in here.
You -- the president's
called it a witch-hunt.
You have said it's a witch-hunt.
And yet you have said
it should go forward.
If you believe, if the president
believes it's a witch-hunt,
does he believe that the
whole thing should stop, that
the special counsel, Robert
Mueller, should step aside
and either let somebody else
take this over or just say,
I'm not going to do this?
JAY SEKULOW: Well, now, the
president hasn't said that the
special counsel can't do his
job.
What the president has said
consistently is - - in fact,
when he -- in that Lester Holt
interview, if you
remember, if you look
at the full transcript,
he acknowledged that,
by firing James Comey and
removing him from the director
of the FBI, that it would extend
this investigation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
JAY SEKULOW: He said that.
So, he knew the consequence,
so to speak, of his action.
He took the action because
he thought it was in the best
interest of the United States,
as did his attorney
general and deputy attorney
general and others.
So, I think that we're -- when
I say the phrase witch-hunt,
when the president is talking
about a witch-hunt, this whole
frenzy that developed and,
again, with everybody coming
forward on all of these
committees says so far they have
seen nothing in, like I said,
an investigation
going on nine months.
So, the special counsel
has been appointed.
And the special counsel will
ultimately do their job.
And at the end of that special
counsel's job, we will see
that there is nothing against
the president, as I
suspected the entire time.
And I think the legal
team without question
is confident of that.
But, Judy, the witch-hunt aspect
of this is just the nature of
what's going on with multiple
committees simultaneously,
now a special counsel.
I mean, what else are you going
to add to the mix to make it?
And, by the way, when you have
a special counsel and you have
those committees going, as you
know -- you have been watching
it a long time - - when you
have those going simultaneously,
it raises a whole host of issues
of conflicts and everything
else that are going to have
to be looked at.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So,
two quick questions.
If the president believes this
is a witch-hunt, if you and his
other attorneys believe that,
and yet, at the same
time, you're saying the
probe should go forward,
there is a contradiction
there.
Are you saying it should
go forward unfettered, that
there will be cooperation
from the president?
Or are you saying there
is going to be some
kind of resistance
because you think it's
an illegitimate investigation?
JAY SEKULOW: Well, look, the
president has said that --
has given no indication that
he's not going to
cooperate, if there's
anything to cooperate on.
Now, let me be clear on that,
because you raise a really
important point, and that is
there is multiple aspects
to this Russian probe,
as it has been described.
So, we will -- the
president is not saying
stop the Russian probe.
The witch-hunt aspect of
this is this media-created
frenzy of unnamed sources
saying it's targeting
the president.
And then, of course, then you
had the contradictory source
from ABC saying it wasn't.
So, this is the
witch-hunt aspect of
this, leaking information.
Agents -- I mean, how
does it make the American
people feel that supposed
investigators involved
in this Russian probe
are leaking information
anonymously without even
defining what agency
they're from to The
Washington Post?
That shouldn't be OK.
It shouldn't be any more
OK than James Comey doing
the same thing, by the way.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But I believe you
have acknowledged the fact that
the president did fire James
Comey, the FBI director, who
at that time was overseeing
this investigation, the fact
that the president made those
comments to Lester Holt, to
the Russian diplomats about
relieving pressure, the
appearance is that the president
wanted to do what he could to
get this investigation
off his back.
JAY SEKULOW: I think --
I don't think that's at
all what the case is.
I think the president
removed James Comey for
a number of reasons.
Look, many left of center were
calling for the removal of
James Comey just about a year
ago.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Excuse me.
The president said the
reason was, at least
what he told Lester Holt,
was the Russia thing
was on his mind when
he fired James Comey.
JAY SEKULOW: Well, but look
at -- when you say the Russian
thing is on his mind, look
at the way the probe was
handled on Hillary Clinton.
This was an individual,
James Comey, who didn't
handle a very important
investigation properly.
And left, right and center
have acknowledged it.
And when the president was
talking about the way the Russia
probe is, that, as it moves
forward, it is handled
properly, not the way it was
handled under James Comey.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jay Sekulow,
representing President
Trump, thank you very much.
JAY SEKULOW: Thanks, Judy.